shiv bhola bhandari
Q1. Discuss the prototyping model. What is the effect of designing a prototype on the overall cost
of the project?
ANS: -
The Prototyping Model is one of the most popularly used Software Development Life Cycle Models (SDLC models). This model is used when the customers do not know the exact project requirements beforehand. In this model, a prototype of the end product is first developed, tested and refined as per customer feedback repeatedly till a final acceptable prototype is achieved which forms the basis for developing the final product.
In this process model, the system is partially implemented before or during the analysis phase thereby giving the customers an opportunity to see the product early in the life cycle. The process starts by interviewing the customers and developing the incomplete high-level paper model. This document is used to build the initial prototype supporting only the basic functionality as desired by the customer. Once the customer figures out the problems, the prototype is further refined to eliminate them. The process continues until the user approves the prototype and finds the working model to be satisfactory and it offers a small-scale facsimile of the end product and is used for obtaining customer feedback.
Types of prototypes:
Rapid Throwaway Prototyping.
Evolutionary Prototyping.
Incremental Prototyping.
Extreme Prototyping.
Effects:
Prototyping may have some initial costs of developing, but it reduces the overall budget by helping your product to be free of the errors or glitches that could have occurred if the idea was made from scratch without any prior user testing. Furthermore, prototyping also helps to understand the intrinsic flaws, shortcomings and drawbacks that can be improved during the product development process. If the prototyping process is ignored completely, it might result in the restructuring and redesigning of the entire product after spending all your resources on its development. So, the effect of designing a prototype on the overall cost of a software project is to actually reduce the additional costs of restructuring and reframing it after its full-fledged development- which might cost a fortune.
Q2. Compare iterative enhancement model and evolutionary process model.
Ans: -
Sr